 Though the anti-vaccine movement likely is one of the reasons for the outbreak in California, which so far has spread to 73 residents, a U.S. News analysis of data from the California Department of Public Health show that most of those who currently have the virus are aged 20 or older, meaning some were born not only before the anti-vaccine movement swelled, but also before the U.S. implemented aggressive immunization measures. 
Measles is a virus that begins with a high fever and leads to a runny nose, cough, and red and watery eyes. After a few days, a rash develops and spreads all over the body. People who recover from measles are immune for the rest of their lives, though unlike the flu, there is no specific antiviral treatment for the illness. Care instead is supportive, and includes a focus on hydration and nutrition. Antibiotics can be prescribed in cases where pneumonia or an ear or eye infection develops.
The virus' qualities make it easy to spread in an environment like Disneyland, which during the winter holidays can reach 70,000 visitors a day. Not only is measles highly contagious – spreading through both direct contact and through the air by coughing and sneezing – but it also remains in the air or on infected surfaces for up to two hours. If one person has it, 90 percent of the people close to that person who have not been vaccinated may also become infected, says the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
Two doses of a vaccine are 99 percent effective in preventing infection. According to the CDC, children should get a first vaccine around 12 months and then receive a booster by the age of 6, or before kindergarten. Teens and adults also can get the vaccine if they haven't before – and can discover immunity through a simple blood test. 
The majority of the unvaccinated for whom the state public health agency had detailed information were not vaccinated primarily to “personal beliefs," Dr. Gil Chavez, state epidemiologist and deputy director at the Center for Infectious Diseases for the California Department of Public Health, said in an email. She also noted that some were infants younger than 12 months of age who were too young to be vaccinated. 
According to an article in the Journal of Infectious Diseases, people who were not in the targeted age group went unvaccinated, leaving a gap of people in older age groups who were not protected. "The major problem with measles in highly vaccinated populations occurred among middle school, junior high school, senior high school, and college students," the article read. "The quickest way to eliminate that problem would be a mass revaccination campaign of all such students. This was considered too expensive and logistically difficult to carry out." 
 Previous reports, however, give some clues about vaccination disparities. Many infections during the 1989 to 1991 outbreak were centered in areas where vaccinations levels were low. In fact, the CDC reported: "Surveys in areas experiencing outbreaks among preschool-aged children indicated that as few as 50 percent of children had been vaccinated against measles by their second birthday, and that black and Hispanic children were less likely to be age-appropriately vaccinated than were white children." 
Some parents also may be delaying vaccinations rather than refusing them outright. "By and large the vast majority of children are immunized, but not all children are immunized, and not all children are immunized in a timely fashion," says Edwards, who is on the committee for infectious disease for the American Academy of Pediatrics. Some parents may opt not to get a series of vaccines all at once, she points out, but that delays the administration of the vaccine. 
