Rabies is a preventable viral disease of mammals most often transmitted through the bite of a rabid animal. The vast majority of rabies cases reported to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) each year occur in wild animals like raccoons, skunks, bats, and foxes.
Rabies vaccine is given to people at increased risk of rabies to protect them if they are exposed. It can also prevent the disease if it is given to a person after they have been exposed.
Rabies vaccine is made from killed rabies virus. It cannot cause rabies.
People at increased risk of exposure to rabies, such as veterinarians, animal handlers, rabies laboratory workers, spelunkers, and rabies biologics production workers should be offered rabies vaccine.
The vaccine should also be considered for:
The pre-exposure schedule for rabies vaccination is three doses, given at the following times:
2nd dose: 7 days after the first dose
3rd dose: 21 days or 28 days after the second dose
For laboratory workers and others who may be repeatedly exposed to rabies virus, periodic testing for immunity is recommended, and booster doses should be given as needed. Testing or booster doses are not recommended for travelers. Ask your doctor for details.
Anyone who has been bitten by an animal, or who otherwise may have been exposed to rabies, should clean the wound and see a doctor immediately. The doctor will determine if they need to be vaccinated.
A person who is exposed and has never been vaccinated against rabies should get four doses of rabies vaccine - one dose right away, and additional doses on the third, seventh and fourteenth days. They should also get another shot called Rabies Immune Globulin at the same time as the first dose.
A person who has been previously vaccinated should get two doses of rabies vaccine - one right away and another on the third day. Rabies Immune Globulin is not needed.
Rabies is a serious disease caused by a virus, and is mainly a disease of animals. Humans get rabies when they are bitten by infected animals.
The first symptoms of rabies may be very similar to those of the flu including general weakness or discomfort, fever, or headache. These symptoms may last for days. There may be also discomfort or a prickling or itching sensation at the site of bite, progressing within days to symptoms of cerebral dysfunction, anxiety, confusion, and agitation.
The Vaccine Information Statement (VIS) for the rabies vaccine describes the benefits and risks of the vaccine. These sheets are required to be given each time you receive a vaccine dose.
FDA vaccine-specific approved prescribing information.
More information about rabies on the CDC’s Rabies Prevention and Control Page.
Prepare for your vaccination visit by reading what to expect.
Find places to get vaccinated in your area.
Explore resources to help pay for vaccines.
Rabies is more common in some countries than others. Find out if you should be vaccinated before you travel abroad.
