Hi all, first time traveling to Belize in the next few weeks with my husband. Will be there for 10 days. I am hearing mixed opinions on whether vaccines are necessary or not. My friend who went last year said yes, I think instead of vaccine she took malaria pills, travel agent said no, CDC says yes on website, doctor said no. Would love to know what you all think. We are spending 5 nights at Ka'ana and 5 nights at Matachica on Ambergris Caye. Please advise. And if you have any must do activities, would appreciate that too....
Thanks!!!
I'm frankly amazed that your MD would not go along with the CDC recommendation. Malaria is easy to prevent and the dickens to cure, so why not take the pills? Malaria is present in the country, especially away from the coast, and if you're lucky you won't get it. Feeling lucky?
By the way, we are supposed to berate you for seeking medical advice on the internet, but since you already talked to your MD, you're OK. Now you'll hear a lot of contradictory advice from the forum.
Frankly, I'd be changing physicians. The CDC is very conservative, but, pretty much every physician I know goes by their recommendations. And, I used to be a nurse in a pediatric clinic that gave travel vaccines.
I just returned from Nicaragua and Belize. We took anti-malarials for Nicaragua, but, didn't take them for Belize, we were just on Ambergris. We probably will take them this winter when we head to Chan Chich on the mainland.
Have you been vaccinated against Hepatitis A & B? You really only have time for the first injection in the series, but, you will have partial protection from that. Hepatitis A is endemic in all of Central America, I simply can't fathom a physician not recommending being vaccinated against it.
Sounds like a smart doctor since some of the drugs can have much worse side effects than the disease - maybe they'd been to Belize before. It's extremely rare here, and it's the vivax strain, so it's easily curable. Some like to err on the side of caution, of course. I'd listen to your doctor.
Malaria
The number of cases of malaria in Belize has fallen significantly over the past several years, from more than 1000 cases per year prior to 2006 to less than 100 per year in the past two years -- 79 cases in 2011 and 33 cases in 2012 (up to 1 November, and 25 of those 33 were in Stann Creek District).
It basically depends where you intend to travel and your level of risk. San Pedro would be lower risk than small remote villages in the south of the country.
Some of the ways you can reduce the risk: sleeping in screened rooms, covering up during peak biting times, wearing repellent and removing any standing water which provides a breeding ground for mosquitoes.
The other disease you should be aware of is dengue fever. It is transmitted by some species of mosquito, and since there is no prophylactic, it's more important that prevention is sought by reducing the habitat and the number of mosquitoes and limiting exposure to bites.
The number of dengue cases has varied greatly over the years because dengue cases tend to arise from outbreaks. In most years, the number of cases per year is less than 50, but in 2005, 2009 & 2010, cases numbered in the several hundreds. If I remember correctly, outbreaks have occurred in Caye Caulker, Corozal, Orange Walk as well as other regions of Belize, so this is a disease that does not just occur in smaller remote villages. Since 1998, there have been no deaths from dengue.
Other Shots
There may be no requirements for any shots before you enter Belize, but again it's up to you to assess your own risk. Tetanus & hepatitis shots are something you should have anyway, wherever you live. FOR ME -- I wouldn't get typhoid, diptheria, cholera or yellow fever, but your case might be different.
In the US, I don't think you can get tetanus without getting diphtheria. All the vaccines I've seen have had both.
Dukoral was initially introduced as a cholera vaccine. It's not available in the US. I've never heard of other cholera vaccines being available, but, I've been retired for three years.
Yellow fever isn't recommended for Belize. If you're traveling to an area that has yellow fever, you really need to get vaccinated. Many countries won't allow you inside their borders if you're coming from a yellow fever area without proof of being vaccinated. And, proof is the yellow card with an official stamp. Not just a copy of your immunization record.
I keep my typhoid vaccine status current, but, not really for travel to Belize.
I'm so torn and confused. Thanks for your input but what is the final verdict? I am travelling from NYC.
The final verdict should be between you and a physician who knows something about travel medicine. After speaking with someone knowledgeable, it will be up to you to decide on the level of risk that you're willing to take.
It's a trade off, the anti-malarials do have side effects, although neither Cholorquine or Malarone have ever bothered me.
I personally think everyone should be vaccinated against Hepatitis A & B. Both diseases are out there, outbreaks of Hepatitis A happen in the US. Several people died from it in Pittsburgh not too many years ago.
Everyone should also keep their tetanus up to date. And, now, there's an adult form that also prevents pertussis (whooping cough). Pertussis isn't a serious disease for healthy adults (but coughing for up to three months isn't fun). However, it kills infants. So, if you're due for a tetanus booster, get one with pertussis included: TDaP.
Have a look at this website www.fitfortravel.nhs.uk This is the one we're advised to check out in the UK. We also have to book an appointment with the nurse at the GP surgery, complete a form on where we are staying and the check whether it is a "risk" area. We are visiting in January and staying in Placencia for one week and Ambergris for the other. Placencia is a medium-risk area for Malaria so we are therefore taking tablets. It's not worth the risk. Tablets start a week before to check no side effects with the medication. If you are doing any trekking in Belize that takes you into jungle-type areas - you are advised to take Malaria. It doesn't really matter how much insect repellant, Skin So Soft you apply, there's always one that gets through it and that could be the one!
Hi there, 
I live in Canada and I'm going to Belize in march. I was in Venezuela in December/January and I did not get a yellow fever shot prior to going. One of the requirements to get into belize is to have this shot if coming from a country where this is a risk. I'm not coming directly from this country and there will be 2 months and 1 week in between my trips but I just want to make sure I am not going to be denied entry into belize if I don't have the vaccinations. Does anybody know if this is necessary. I've been researching a lot and cannot find an answer. I don't want to get the vaccination if it is not necessary. Thank you
After reading the WHO website and the CDC website, I think you'll be fine. It appears the incubation period for yellow fever is short, less than a week.
However, I'd contact a travel clinic and ask them, just to be sure.
I've traveled to Colombia, followed up a couple months later by a trip to Belize. I have been vaccinated against yellow fever, but, no one asked to see the certificate.
But, do contact your local travel clinic to make sure. They probably have better web sites than you or I can easily access.
