I am traveling for around 3 -6 months to Thailand, Laos, Vietnam and Cambodia. Pre-exposure immunization for rabies in Australia is very expensive and I read that it can save hundreds of dollars to receive the three injections in countries where rabies is common due to demand.
I work in healthcare, but wouldn't consider myself an authority on this particular question by any means. I would consult a reputable travel clinic and follow their advice. You need to consider how likely you are to come in contact with an infected animal, and I would consider each one infected, unless you know otherwise. I'd say that vaccination is like insurance - and, as Australian Government suggests, if you cannot afford travel insurance, you cannot afford to travel... I'm not sure how much you were quoted for the course of vaccines, however, little research has turned up this site thetraveldoctor.com.au/blog/rabies_vaccine/, which suggests that it might be quite reasonable (I suppose it would be a bit more now than in 2012, when it was written). 
"I want to stay away from Bangkok as they will be under a 60 day state of emergency when I arrive there and tourists have been told to exercise extreme caution."
Mick, there is an excellent post that is currently going on in the Bangkok forum about this very matter. I would highly recommend you read ALL the posts on it. The Thai government issuing a 60 day state of emergency is nothing like issuing a state of emergency here in Australia. Here is a short narrative from many of the posts there: 
"The State of Emergency is so far more of a preemptive measure than something that needs to be a subject of immediate concern. It gives the government the right to use security forces to disperse gatherings, ban marches and enforce a curfew."
I have only last week returned from 2 weeks in Thailand. I spent most of that time in Bangkok and am a regular visitor there. Bangkok is a massive city. Much, much bigger than Melbourne. As a tourist, is was very easy to avoid the demonstrators. To be honest, I did not see any thing different there than any other time i visited.
Also, the Australian Government, to my knowledge, has always advised people to exercise extreme caution whilst visiting Bangkok. This has not changed. Obviously as a tourist, you should not go looking for these demonstrations and just do your normal every day thing.
Admittedly, although I have been traveling around Asia for many years, including several years actually living in an Asian country, having rabies immunization never occurred to me nor was it ever recommended by any do for I visited, either here or in Asia. We didn't go round petting animals, especially dogs and monkeys, and we didn't keep pets when we lived there. 
However, I understand why the OP my want the pre immunisation rabies vaccine. But, if you are so concerned then I wouldn't have thought that cost would be an issue. You are aware that it is a course of 3 shots over a month? Will you be in one place for that long? If not (and you are so worried) how will you protect yourself during that month? 
You cannot always prevent bites- sometimes it s just wrong place, wrong animal. 
My 17 year old daughter is currently undergoing the course of rabies vaccinations; she has had 2 shots and has the 3rd in 2 weeks time. She is travelling to Kenya in March with her school. I wanted to ensure she had all the required shots, and as her GP couldn't give the Yellow Fever vaccination, I took my pharmacists advice and took her to a travel clinic.
Really glad I did that. She has been able to get what she needs there. They did have the rabies vaccine available, even though there is a shortage. Yes, it is expensive, $110. per shot, although we are able to claim some of this through our health insurance.
The doctor we saw said that as they are a travel clinic they do offer a cheaper option for those who don't want to or can't pay that amount. One evening each week they held a clinic with rabies vaccinations for ( I think) $40. per shot. The difference (and I might not have this completely right) was the vaccine is not as strong and is injected just into the skin, as opposed into muscle. You still have 3 shots, but then have to return for a skin test to see if it has worked.
