UNICEF is committed to doing all it can to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), in partnership with governments, civil society, business, academia and the United Nations family – and especially children and young people.
UNICEF uses innovative approaches to solve problems and improve the lives of children around the world.
As the crisis enters its sixth year, the world must not forget the human realities at stake. 
                         World Immunization Week 2016: Yellow fever in Angola shows vaccine funding is critical. Here, a girl gets her vaccine on the yellow fever campaign's first day in the Huambo province, Angola.                     
                         UNICEF’s Deputy Executive Director for Programmes, Ms. Geeta Rao Gupta, visited UNICEF-supported maternal and child health programmes in Ethiopia before a conference in which African leaders came together to commit to expanding access to vaccines for chil                     
                         Babies need you! UNICEF India has launched a digital campaign to highlight the urgency of routine immunization. Click the baby to see four ways you can participate!                     
                         Photographer GMB Akash shows health workers going the distance to try and reach every Bangladeshi child with vaccines. He follows health workers as they deliver vaccines to some of the most remote parts of the country.                     
                         The 2014 progress report on the Global Vaccine Action Plan shows that vaccination progress is slowing—persistent gaps in coverage that threaten the lives of millions of children, especially the most vulnerable and excluded.                     
Vaccines keep children alive and healthy by protecting them against disease. Immunization is especially important for the hardest to reach families as it can also be a bridge to other life-saving care for mothers and children in isolated communities – such as child nutritional screening, anti-malarial mosquito nets, vitamin A supplements and de-worming tablets. Immunization is one of the most successful and cost-effective public health investments we can make for future generations. 
Vaccines are protecting more children than ever before. But, in 2015, nearly one in five infants - 19.4 million children - missed out on the basic vaccines they need to stay healthy. Low immunization levels compromise gains in all other areas of health for mothers and children. The poorest, most vulnerable children who need immunization the most continue to be the least likely to get it. 
Almost one third of deaths among children under 5 are preventable by vaccine. UNICEF and its partners are working to change these numbers and ensure that all children are successfully protected with vaccines. But, if immunization is not prioritized, the most marginalized children will not get vaccines, which could mean the difference between life and death.
Read up on progress and challenges in immunization coverage  - WUENIC 2015 (as of July 2016).
What's happening for World Immunization Week 2016?
